SSR-2795_create attachment tips guides (#1213)
kintone-labs/kintone-ui-component: docs/document/docs/guides/attachment-customization.md

title: Attachment customization
sidebar_label: Attachment customization
---

## Overview
This article assumes the following scenario: 
1. Create a file object (blob/arrayBuffer pattern and simple object pattern) and apply it to KUC Attachment component
2. Get the file info that user attached
3. Validate the file type/size and show error in case it is invalid
4. Apply KUC Attachment component files into native kintone Attachment field

### Components to use
- [Attachment](../components/desktop/attachment.md)
- [Button](../components/desktop/button.md)
- [Spinner](../components/desktop/spinner.md)

# Completed image

The completed image of the customized page is as follows:
![attachment customize](assets/attachment_customize.gif)

## JavaScript and CSS Customization

When you import the UMD file of Kintone UI Component to the app, you can upload the JavaScript files by following these steps:

You can see how to upload a file in the [Quick Start](../getting-started/quick-start.md).

## What you will need to have ready

Create a app that include a attachment field with id "Attachment" and a blank space filed with id "space". 

### Display custom attachment area

> Display the kuc attachment component(We can directly add the files in the native kintone attachment field to the files property of kuc attachment) and two buttons:

Reviewer: I don't know the necessity of this supplement explanation.
`(We can directly add the files in the native kintone attachment field to the files property of kuc attachment)`

```suggestion
Display the KUC Attachment component and two Button components:
```

- add custom files to KUC Attachment
- upload to native kintone Attachment

```javascript
kintone.events.on('app.record.detail.show',async (event)=>{
  if(event.record[`${ATTACHMENT_FIELD_ID}`]){
    const attachment = new Kuc.Attachment({files: record[`${ATTACHMENT_FIELD_ID}`].value, label:'KUC Attachment'});
    const addCustomFilesButton = new Kuc.Button({text: 'add custom files to KUC Attachment'});
    const uploadButton = new Kuc.Button({text: 'upload to native kintone Attachment'});
    const spinner = new Kuc.Spinner();
    const spaceElement = kintone.app.record.getSpaceElement(SPACE_ID);
    const container = document.createElement('div');
    container.appendChild(attachment);
    container.appendChild(addCustomFilesButton);
    container.appendChild(uploadButton);
    spaceElement.appendChild(container);
  }
  return event;
});
```

> ### Create some file objects and apply them to KUC Attachment component

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Create some file objects and apply them to the KUC Attachment component
```

> Add a click event listener for addCustomFilesButton. 
> When the button was clicked it will create three types of file objects(modify blob/arrayBuffer to [File object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/File) and simple object pattern{name: "xx", size: "xx"})
> and add them to the file properties of the attachment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a click event listener for `addCustomFilesButton`.<br>
When the button is clicked, it will create three types of file objects as follows:
- Blob/ArrayBuffer files modified to [File object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/File)
- Simple object (`{name: "xx", size: "xx"}`)
And add them to the `files` property of the KUC Attachment component.
```

> ```javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```javascript
```

const addCustomFilesButton = new Kuc.Button({text: 'add custom files to KUC Attachment'});
addCustomFilesButton.addEventListener('click', ()=>{
  attachment.files = attachment.files.concat(initCustomFiles());
});
function initCustomFiles(){
    const blob = new Blob(['this type is blob'], {type:'txt'});
    const buffer = new ArrayBuffer(8);
    const customFiles = [
      arrayBufferToFile(buffer, 'array-buffer-file.txt', 'txt'),
      blobToFile(blob,'blob-file.txt'),
      {name: 'custom-file.txt', size: '150', type: 'txt'}
    ]
    return customFiles;
  }

function arrayBufferToFile(buffer, filename, type){
  const blob = new Blob([buffer], { type: type });
  return new File([blob], filename, { type: type });
};

function blobToFile(blob, filename){
  return new File([blob], filename , { type: blob.type });
}
```

> ### Get the files info by user selected and validate the type and size of them

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Get the files info selected by a user and validate the type and size of them
```

> Add a change event listener for attachment.
> When user select/delete any files. We can get the file info by the callback of change event.
> Validate the type/size("text/50Mb") of file and get the index of invalid files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a change event listener for `attachment`.<br>
When a user selects/deletes any files, we can get the file info by the callback of the change event.<br>
Validate the type/size("text/50MB") of the files and get the index of invalid files.
```

> ```javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```javascript
```

attachment.addEventListener('change',(event)=>{
  console.log(event.detail);//The changed file info
  attachment.error = validateAttachmentFiles(event.detail.files);
});
function validateAttachmentFiles(files){
  const acceptType = 'text';
  const maxSize = 1024 * 1024 * 50;//50Mb
  let error = '';
  files.forEach((file,index)=>{
    let types = [];
    if(file.type){
      types = file.type.split('/');
    }
    //The file type in the native kintone attachment field file is "contentType"
    if(file.contentType){
      types = file.contentType.split('/');
    }
    if(!types.includes(acceptType)){
        error = 'There is an invalid file type!';
        console.log(`Invalid type file index is ${index}`);
    }
    if(!file.size || parseInt(file.size) > maxSize){
        error = 'There is an invalid file size!'
        console.log(`Invalid size file index is ${index}`);
    }
  });
  return error;
}
```

> ### Apply KUC Attachment component files into native kintone Attachment field

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Upload KUC Attachment component files into the native Kintone Attachment field
```

> Add a click event listener for uploadButton.
> When the button was clicked the kuc spinner will be displayed. 
> Use the "uploadFile" method of KintoneRestApiClient to upload files without fileKey attribute to kintone.
> Then use the fileKeys returned by the upload method to generate a new record and update it to the kintone record.
> Finally close the kuc spinner and refresh this page
> All API calls use [@kintone/rest-api-client](https://github.com/kintone/js-sdk/tree/master/packages/rest-api-client) Friends who need it can try it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a click event listener for `uploadButton`.<br>
When the button is clicked, show the KUC Spinner component.<br>
Use the `uploadFile` method of KintoneRestApiClient to upload files to Kintone.<br>
Then use the fileKeys returned by the upload method to update the Kintone record.<br>
Finally, close the KUC Spinner component and refresh the page.<br>
All API calls use [@kintone/rest-api-client](https://github.com/kintone/js-sdk/tree/master/packages/rest-api-client).
```

```javascript
const uploadButton = new Kuc.Button({text: 'upload to native kintone Attachment'});
uploadButton.addEventListener('click',async ()=>{
  spinner.open();
  const fileKeys = await uploadFiles(attachment.files);
  const params = generateRecordParams(fileKeys,record[`${ID}`].value)
  await updateRecord(params);
  spinner.close();
  location.reload();
});
function generateRecordParams(fileKeys, recordId){
  const app = kintone.app.getId();
  const record = {};
  record[`${ATTACHMENT_FIELD_ID}`] = {value: fileKeys};
  return {app: app, id:recordId, record: record};
}

async function uploadFiles(files){
  const fileKeys = [];
  for(const file of files){
    if(!file.fileKey){
        const response = await uploadFile({name:file.name, data: file});
        file.fileKey = response.fileKey;
    }
    fileKeys.push({fileKey:file.fileKey});
  }
  return fileKeys;
}

const client = new KintoneRestAPIClient();

function uploadFile(files){
  return client.file.uploadFile({file:files});
}

function updateRecord(params){
  return client.record.updateRecord(params)
}
```

> ## Conclusion
> 
> How is it working out for you?<br>
> We hope you will experience a better Kintone development than ever before using the new Kintone UI Component library.
> 

Reviewer: I think you can delete these lines.
```suggestion
```

> > This article was reviewed by Kintone and Google Chrome as of November, 2022.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This article was reviewed by Kintone and Google Chrome as of December, 2022.<br>
```

const ID = '$id';
const uploadButton = new Kuc.Button({
  text: 'upload to native kintone Attachment', type: 'submit',
});
uploadButton.addEventListener('click', async () => {
  spinner.open();
  const fileKeys = await uploadFiles(attachment.files);
  const params = generateRecordParams(fileKeys, record[`${ID}`].value);
  await updateRecord(params);
  spinner.close();
  location.reload();
});

function generateRecordParams(fileKeys, recordId) {
  const app = kintone.app.getId();
  const record = {};
  record[`${KINTONE_ATTACHMENT_FIELD}`] = {value: fileKeys};
  return {app: app, id: recordId, record: record};
}

async function uploadFiles(files) {
  const fileKeys = [];
  for (const file of files) {
    if (!file.fileKey) {
      const response = await uploadFile({name: file.name, data: file});
      file.fileKey = response.fileKey;
    }
    fileKeys.push({fileKey: file.fileKey});
  }
  return fileKeys;
}

const client = new KintoneRestAPIClient();

function uploadFile(file) {
  return client.file.uploadFile({file: file});
}

function updateRecord(params) {
  return client.record.updateRecord(params);
}
```

> ## Conclusion
> 

Reviewer: Please delete blank category.

```suggestion
```

> This article was reviewed by Kintone and Google Chrome as of December, 2022.<br>
> In addition, the version of Kintone UI Component that is used for customizations is v1.8.0.

> > The documentation for v0 is a separate site.Please check [here](https://kintone-labs.github.io/kintone-ui-component/latest/).

Reviewer: Please delete unnecessary sentence.

```suggestion
```

Use the `uploadFile` method of KintoneRestApiClient to upload files to Kintone.<br>
Then use the fileKeys returned by the upload method to update the Kintone record.<br>
Finally, close the KUC Spinner component and refresh the page.<br>

> All API calls use [XMLHttpRequest](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XMLHttpRequest) + [kintone REST API](https://kintone.dev/en/docs/kintone/rest-api/).

Reviewer: Please change "+" to "or".
